conferences.md, before:

:point_left: [Come back to index](README.md)

# Django Code of Conduct

## Support for event organizers

The Django Code of Conduct is committed to providing a safe, harassment free
environment for all Django events.

As an event organizer, it's best that you set up a Code of Conduct committee
that will handle any Code of Conduct violations at the event. It's very
important that your attendees feel and are protected at your event.

Establishing and enforcing Code of Conduct at events is not easy. Here is how
Django Code of Conduct committee can help event organizers to ensure safe
environments at events.

### Before the event

* We advise that you share the list of attendees with us such that we are able to
check it against our list of Code of Conduct offenders. If any of the attendees
appears on our list as flagged or banned, we will inform you about this.

* Similarly, before you announce your accepted speakers, you can send us the
speaker list to see if any appear on our lists.

* Note that we can only tell you whether or not someone appears in our records
as flagged or banned. We don't guarantee that people have never violated
a Code of Conduct, as we won't inform you of minor incidents, and records of
minor incidents are expunged after some time. We also don't do any research
beyond our own lists.

* If you have any trouble with setting up a Code of Conduct policy for your event,
reach out to us and we will be able to help you through the process of creating
one.

### During the event

* If you encounter a Code of Conduct violation at your event that needs to be
addressed immediately, you can reach out to us and we will try to help you
through the processing of resolving it.

### After the event

* After the event, you can reach out to us to report any Code of Conduct
violations. If you'd like us to take action on any of them, we will be able to
help out. However, if no action is needed, we will add them to our records as
well for future reference. Reporting any (even resolved) Code of Conduct
violations to us helps us create one, central record of incidents to help all
events be more safe.

----

[Go to next chapter: Code of Conduct transparency](transparency.md) :point_right:

Commit message:

Clarify the process for flagging/banning/conference reports (#39)

conferences.md, after:

:point_left: [Come back to index](README.md)

# Django Code of Conduct

## Support for event organizers

The Django Code of Conduct is committed to providing a safe, harassment free
environment for all Django events.

As an event organizer, it's best that you set up a Code of Conduct committee
that will handle any Code of Conduct violations at the event. It's very
important that your attendees feel and are protected at your event.

Establishing and enforcing Code of Conduct at events is not easy. Here is how
Django Code of Conduct committee can help event organizers to ensure safe
environments at events.

### Before the event

* We advise that you share the list of attendees with us such that we are able to
check it against our list of Code of Conduct offenders. If any of the attendees
appears on our list as flagged or banned, we will inform you about this.

* Similarly, before you announce your accepted speakers, you can send us the
speaker list to see if any appear on our lists.

* Note that we can only tell you whether or not someone appears in our records
as flagged or banned. We don't guarantee that people have never violated
a Code of Conduct, as we won't inform you of minor incidents, and records of
minor incidents are expunged after some time. We also don't do any research
beyond our own lists.

* If you have any trouble with setting up a Code of Conduct policy for your event,
reach out to us and we will be able to help you through the process of creating
one.

### During the event

* If you encounter a Code of Conduct violation at your event that needs to be
addressed immediately, you can reach out to us and we will try to help you
through the processing of resolving it.

### After the event

Conferences in the Django community are strongly encouraged to keep reports 
on all Code of Conduct incidents they handle, and send these reports to the
committee after the end of the conference. Reports should include names 
of people involved and, ideally, a description of the facts determined by 
the conference team, the review of the incident, actions taken, and responses 
to actions taken. We also appreciate any screenshots of original slack or 
twitter messages, or recordings of talks, that show the violation, and 
copies of message exchanges between the team and any reporters or bad actors.

Upon receiving reports from a conference, the committee will:
* Confirm receipt of the reports to the conference.
* Review all reports.
* Assess whether any additional action from the committee is needed.
* Record all reports in the committee’s records.


Reporting any (even resolved) Code of Conduct
violations to us helps us create one, central record of incidents to help all
events be more safe.

----

[Go to next chapter: Code of Conduct transparency](transparency.md) :point_right:
