records.md, before:

:point_left: [Come back to index](README.md)

# Django Code of Conduct

## Record-keeping
Regardless of the outcome, we note each report and outcome in our records, with the following fields:

 * __Date of 1st report.__ for time-tracking
 * __Reporter, if official/public, CoC person if private.__ We do not name private reporters here, but the CoC representative handling the case instead
 * __Named subjects.__ The people or usernames who prompted the report.
 * __Subject email address/URL.__
 * __Summary of report (for internal purposes).__ A confidential summary of the nature of the report
 * __Action taken by us?__ Anything involving contacting the subject of the report counts as action
 * __Action taken by local rep?__ Often the reports are handled satisfactorily by community organizers.
 * __Summary of outcome to share if suitable.__ This is written for sharing with community organizers, assuming it may be read by the subject of the report, and so should be objective and privacy-respecting.
 * __Blacklisted or flagged.__ "flagged" means we will share the summary outcome of the report with event organisers; "blacklisted" means that the information will include that we have asked the person not to attend events covered by the CoC. Blacklisted is a subclass of flagged.
 * __Date to expunge this record.__ When this date is exceeded, we replace identifying information in the record with "Expunged", with the idea that the report isn't to affect our dealings with this person after this date. For reports that seem to be minor, or one-offs, or that weren't upheld, this date is 6 or 12 months in the future. For reports that seem more serious, or repeat violations, there is no expunge date. The date resets if we receive further reports about any individuals concerned.

These records are used to form our [statistics].

### Data retention

> Work in progress


----

[Go to next chapter: Support for conference organizers](conferences.md) :point_right:

[statistics]: statistics.md

Commit message:

Fixes #4 -- Add information about data retention and access

records.md, after:

:point_left: [Come back to index](README.md)

# Django Code of Conduct

## Record-keeping
Regardless of the outcome, we note each report and outcome in our records, with the following fields:

 * __Date of 1st report.__ for time-tracking
 * __Reporter, if official/public, CoC person if private.__ We do not name private reporters here, but the CoC representative handling the case instead
 * __Named subjects.__ The people or usernames who prompted the report.
 * __Subject email address/URL.__
 * __Summary of report (for internal purposes).__ A confidential summary of the nature of the report
 * __Action taken by us?__ Anything involving contacting the subject of the report counts as action
 * __Action taken by local rep?__ Often the reports are handled satisfactorily by community organizers.
 * __Summary of outcome to share if suitable.__ This is written for sharing with community organizers, assuming it may be read by the subject of the report, and so should be objective and privacy-respecting.
 * __Blacklisted or flagged.__ "flagged" means we will share the summary outcome of the report with event organisers; "blacklisted" means that the information will include that we have asked the person not to attend events covered by the CoC. Blacklisted is a subclass of flagged.
 * __Date to expunge this record.__ When this date is exceeded, we replace identifying information in the record with "Expunged", with the idea that the report isn't to affect our dealings with this person after this date. For reports that seem to be minor, or one-offs, or that weren't upheld, this date is 6 or 12 months in the future. For reports that seem more serious, or repeat violations, there is no expunge date. The date resets if we receive further reports about any individuals concerned.

These records are used to form our [statistics](statistics.md).

## Data retention of records

Records are currently stored in a Google Spreadsheet shared between members of the committee explicitly. Committee insists on not sharing the records outside the members. Once a member steps down from the committee, their access to the records is removed.

We realise this is quite risky and not an ideal solution, but thus far committee didn't have sufficient resources to create a better solution. We're hoping to build a more robust system with better access control functionalities that will allow us better to protect identities of people making reports, as well as offenders. 

## Information from e-mails

Members only have access to e-mails incoming to conduct@djangoproject.com since they become members of the committee. Members cannot access emails from the time before they joined. 

## Slack

Slack discussions are only visible to current members of the committee, although newly joined members can also see past conversations. We're hoping to never discuss sensitive information on Slack, but rather use it for quick coordination of our actions. 

----

[Go to next chapter: Support for conference organizers](conferences.md) :point_right:
